the government shutdown is imminent does
this mean that your roads are suddenly
going to fall apart and that airplanes
might fall from the sky well that's what
we'll talk about today in this video I
have a few issues to talk about in fact
when we see these government shutdowns
happen or at least a threat of them you
have to understand that this ultimately
means that they're going to spend the
maximum amount if you allow them so much
they will take it give an inch they'll
take a mile
delinquencies are rising year over year
faster than the financial crisis that
should make your you know hair stand up
in the back of your neck that should
make you get some Goosebumps because
when we see these repeated patterns of
course that's a problem okay so we're
going to look at that right here and now
government tells federal employees that
a shutdown may be imminent of course at
the end of the month we will see what
happens but as of now what do we know
historically yes they have shut down the
government before
this wouldn't be the first time but
ultimately in the end they reopen it and
it gets bigger than it was before that's
a fact that's pretty obvious and so
these are the circumstances we could
very well face again regardless of
whether they have a temporary shutdown
and by the way when it temporarily shuts
down the whole government doesn't shut
down okay let's be honest about that but
when they come back up it's bigger and
badder than it ever has been keep this
in mind you've got the government
spending way too much money all right
now let's look at this
the US is weaker now than when it was
downgraded in 2011 according to former
SMP ratings chairman so you see that
the US was downgraded okay this is
supposedly the number one country in the
world and in this case here getting
downgraded looking weaker now why is
that the case well you know those the
government shutdown here is the
government shutdown there you have the
you know one issue or another that has
come up these things don't really matter
much what I want to highlight from this
is that we do see problems going on with
debt as a you know when you look at this
on a deeper level corporations the
nation itself as well as individuals and
I'll show you some examples of
delinquencies getting out of hand
already and we've only just begun
remember that we had seen delinquencies
not that long ago at virtually zero and
people were not having an issue why
because there were moratoriums right
it didn't have a problem with rent
didn't have a problem with mortgage
discover charge off rate and you could
see the 2023 forecast being higher than
what we've seen over the past few years
yes the percentages are still
technically small but it is a concern
for these credit card companies
absolutely here we have it delinquency
growth rate is higher than 2008. I want
to make that clear this is the
year-over-year growth in credit card
delinquency not like total dollar value
not total amount of delinquencies but
this is just simply showing us that the
year-over-year growth the change of what
we saw last year to this year has not is
now higher than 2008 and that is
significant it's the highest level since
1992.
bankruptcy filings this is unbelievable
but bankruptcy filings are moving up in
recent weeks a four-week moving average
of U.S bankruptcy filings going back to
the levels we have not seen since the
financial crisis so it is one after the
other after the other do you see how the
dots connect I think this is very
important if you do agree with me hit
that Thumbs Up Button because then we
can be on the same page and I really
appreciate that all right
so when we look at this bankruptcies
from the businesses individuals not
being able to pay their credit cards the
student loans piled up on top of that as
you know now they need to pay
you've got all those moratoriums that
were in place those are gone whoops
and you see this being an issue
for not just a small group of people
but all over the place
and so that is a concern as we see this
next information
here we have it I'm just going to show
you some of this there's like tons of
charts that have pulled up but I want to
highlight a couple points recent loss
Cycles excluding the global financial
crisis have averaged 200 basis points of
higher losses so we can expect much more
essentially
charge offs are currently 4.4 which is
slightly above pre-2020 levels and so
does that mean we're going to get much
much worse this credit card issuers have
seen 90 basis points or 0.9 increase in
delinquencies which is a faster pace of
deterioration than in previous Cycles so
we are getting to a dangerous level
faster than we did before shouldn't that
be a concern to anybody or are we going
to bury our heads in the sand and ask
should we put a lot of money into Nvidia
or just some money into Nvidia because
AI I heard that was all the rage
it's up to you but you gotta understand
this you got to take this information in
and realize what's really going on
during the mid-1990s it took 30 days
plus delinquencies
um you know five quarters to start to
level uh out after the growth peaked all
I'm saying is
this and these charts here what I'm
saying here is that
you have a problem you have a crisis and
look at the financial crisis what
happened housing housing bubble and
everything
that kind of came after 2010 2011. so a
lot of the worst problems the stock
market was already coming back up and
you still had these things going on so
the stock market is going to react much
earlier and there's going to be a bottom
in the stock market earlier that's going
to come back up but you could still have
the actual economy suffering for months
or years after that that's what we've
seen historically so just keep that in
mind
here we have it percent of all firms
unable to pay interest expense from
operating profits oh
yes obviously the number is not super
high but I would to me this is I mean
when I look at it the difference is
basically double where that Trend was
you know in decades prior
and that's not a good sign all right
it's 20 of businesses I mean I'm saying
it's not that bad but even I'm getting
desensitized to all this
I mean but that's the way it is right
look you might ask yourself what's next
what's coming
well let me just talk about the fact
that the debt is up
certainly
I mean just look at that blue line and
then you compare that with the GDP now
even by using their metrics of GDP
we still see this great disconnect in
between the two and the further along
that gets without real the real economy
behind it you encounter more of a
problem okay and of course when you tag
onto that this extreme circumstance with
what we've seen
um I think it's a big issue when when
you have interest rates at this High
when you got this debt that's you know
all off the charts it spells disaster
delinquencies are rising bankruptcy
filings
I think we do have a problem here and
it's only going to be resolved by one
thing what do you think that is I don't
mean actual resolution I mean kicking
the can down the road
U.S annual federal spending and you
could just see the point is that they've
gone way overboard spending more money
than ever in history spending so much
money your tax dollars in order to
stimulate the economy back to life
you've got these things Nestle says
Global food and beverage Market has been
shrinking so this is just one company
saying you know we are seeing a lot less
consumption people are purchasing less
we don't know exactly why but we're
we're feeling it so even a company like
Nestle
which is all kinds of different products
like like so many different things and
they are absolutely feeling it it's not
fancy vacations it's not cars it's
nothing we're talking about items that
could be a dollar two dollars five
dollars and they are feeling it it's
because people are cutting back anywhere
they can and so we see that right now
one company right what about this you
got that issue well here's a solution
for you right why not live in a box oh
yeah can't afford California Housing try
living in a tiny sleeping pod all four
feet of it is that what we're gonna do
now
we're gonna live in little coffins
because inflation is too high let's
break it down for a moment when you
encounter these circumstances of high
inflation
you know
what does the government do okay we're
going to give you a little a little you
know check here you go here where we're
trying to help you out meanwhile they
were the ones they they created this
problem you see the spending that
they've done did I even cover the
quantitative easing not in this video
but you know about it that quantitative
easing that's been going on for so many
years printing money that's what that is
they printed so much money it devalued
your currency so now you gotta go live
in a box
I mean this is this breaks my heart
that's I mean if you want to absolutely
but I know a lot of people in this
circumstance they don't want to
and that's really unfortunate
looting rocks Philly for a second night
so again more looting more crime and
this will continue
there are incentives if you read the
books Freakonomics and super
Freakonomics I have a link in the
description my favorite books I don't
know if I include it in there but you
could check it out
it's all about incentives and if
somebody feels that there's an incentive
to do something then they will no
incentive not going to happen right and
so that's what we're encountering so
what can you do about it what are you
going to do about it well one thing is
to identify your riskiest bets trim the
fat
so when you look at your portfolio when
you look at where your money's kept be
honest with yourself now is the time
trim the fat
okay to protect yourself and your
household crime is going up the cities
are rapidly becoming unsafe and we've
seen this all over the place it's not
just one city or another and your city
might have increasing property values
and still be decaying you got to realize
that
you could have a societal Decay that
occurs meanwhile asset prices are rising
wait how can that be it's because the
currency is being devalued and we know
that that's the case so these are just a
few things that you can be doing that
you need to be looking at and of course
at the same time we want to hold real
assets we want to have things that are
valuable and we want to have Mobility
because we don't know what's going to
happen in our city yes we can kind of
project that out but look at what's
happened to a lot of cities just in
these three years three years it happens
in an instant happens in a Flash Things
become too expensive and you're saying
whoa I hope it turns around uh oh I hope
it turns around and it just happens so
fast you can't catch up to it
and now you have unaffordability people
living in boxes
I mean these things are unfortunate if
you want some help if you want some
guidance check out my website it's
totally free you can see the
moneygps.com I've got compass in there
it's the help guide you to be there for
you whenever you need it so check it out
the moneygps.com okay and then the
comment of the day oral power says
saw the gold bar at Costco but you can't
eat it the best deal is the freeze-dried
food that lasts 25 years which is on
sale
and of course Costco selling gold bars
they started selling all the crazy
um I did see that all I'm talking about
here is that what we need to understand
is that we need to be prepared and you
want to have different things different
objectives for different people at
different stages of their lives and so
on but ultimately we want to have a
level of preparation that's better than
the vast majority but we take the steps
with what we can with what we have and
we will work towards that it's very
important don't don't let that just go
by you okay so that's my message for
today I hope you appreciate it hit that
thumbs up button to support the Channel
I want to know what you think about all
of this and I'll see you on the next one
take care